README.md, before:

[![Java CI with Maven](https://github.com/GReD-Clermont/imagej_omero_extensions/actions/workflows/maven.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/GReD-Clermont/imagej_omero_extensions/actions/workflows/maven.yml)

# omero_extensions

A plugin for ImageJ to provide macro extensions to access OMERO.

## How to use:

Extensions first have to be loaded:

```
run("OMERO Extensions");
```

### Connection:

Connecting to OMERO is done using:

```
Ext.connectToOMERO("host", 4064, "username", "password");
```

Then, switching group can be performed through:

```
Ext.switchGroup(groupId);
```

When done, you can disconnect using:
```
Ext.disconnect()
```

### Listing repository objects (projects, datasets, images, tags)

Once connected, projects, datasets, images and tags IDs can be listed, and their name retrieved:

* Projects:

```
projects = Ext.list("projects");
print(projects);
projectIds = split(projects,",");
projectName = Ext.getName("project", projectIds[0]);
print(projectName);
```

* Datasets:

```
datasets = Ext.list("datasets");
print(datasets);
datasetIds = split(datasets,",");
datasetName = Ext.getName("dataset", datasetIds[0]);
print(datasetName);
```

* Images:

```
images = Ext.list("images");
print(images);
imageIds = split(images,",");
imageName = Ext.getName("image", imageIds[0]);
print(imageName);
```

* Tags:

```
tags = Ext.list("tags");
print(tags);
projectIds = split(tags,",");
tagName = Ext.getName("tag", tagIds[0]);
print(tagName);
```

### Listing objects with a given name

It is also possible to list objects with a specific name:

* Projects:

```
projects = Ext.list("projects", "name");
```

* Datasets:

```
datasets = Ext.list("datasets", "name");
```

* Images:

```
images = Ext.list("images", "name");
```

* Tags:

```
tags = Ext.list("tags", "name");
```

### Listing objects inside a given repository object

Each object ID can then be used to retrieve the contained objects (IDs and names):

It is, for example, possible to list datasets inside a project:

```
datasets = Ext.list("datasets", "project", projectIds[0]);
print(datasets);
datasetIds = split(datasets,",");
datasetName = Ext.getName("dataset", datasetIds[0]);
print(datasetName);
```

It is also possible to list tags attached to an image:

```
tags = Ext.list("tags", "image", imageIds[0]);
print(tags);
tagIds = split(tags,",");
tagName = Ext.getName("tag", tagIds[0]);
print(tagName);
```

Similarly, a dataset ID can be used to retrieve its images:

```
images = Ext.list("images", "dataset", datasetIds[0]);
print(images);
imageIds = split(images,",");
imageName = Ext.getName("image", imageIds[0]);
print(imageName);
```

### Creating projects, datasets and tags

Projects can be created with *Ext.createProject*:

```
projectId = Ext.createProject(name, description);
```

Datasets can be created with *Ext.createDataset*:

```
datasetId = Ext.createDataset(projectId, name, description);
```

Tags can be created with *Ext.createTag*:

```
tagId = Ext.createTag(name, description);
```

### Linking objects

Objects can be linked with *Ext.link*, e.g.:

```
Ext.link("dataset", datasetId, "tag", tagId);
```

### Deleting objects

Objects can be deleted with *Ext.delete*:

```
Ext.delete("project", projectId);
```

### Opening images

Pixel intensities can be retrieved from images:

```
imageplusID = Ext.getImage(imageIds[0]);
```

ROIs from OMERO can also be added to the ROI manager (and the current image):

```
nIJROIs = Ext.getROIs(imageIds[0]);
```

Conversely, ImageJ ROIs can also be saved to OMERO (the property is used to group ImageJ shapes into a single 3D/4D ROI
on OMERO):

```
nROIS = saveROIsToImage(imageId, property);
```

### Attaching / deleting files

Files can be attached to a project/dataset/image through *Ext.addFile*:
```
fileId = Ext.addFile('image', imageId, path);
```

They can also be deleted with *Ext.deleteFile*:
```
Ext.deleteFile(fileId);
```

## License

[GPLv2+](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/gpl-2.0/)

Commit message:

Added method to import images. Made all plugin methods public.

README.md, after:

[![Java CI with Maven](https://github.com/GReD-Clermont/imagej_omero_extensions/actions/workflows/maven.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/GReD-Clermont/imagej_omero_extensions/actions/workflows/maven.yml)

# omero_extensions

A plugin for ImageJ to provide macro extensions to access OMERO.

## How to use:

Extensions first have to be loaded:

```
run("OMERO Extensions");
```

### Connection:

Connecting to OMERO is done using:

```
Ext.connectToOMERO("host", 4064, "username", "password");
```

Then, switching group can be performed through:

```
Ext.switchGroup(groupId);
```

When done, you can disconnect using:
```
Ext.disconnect()
```

### Listing repository objects (projects, datasets, images, tags)

Once connected, projects, datasets, images and tags IDs can be listed, and their name retrieved:

* Projects:

```
projects = Ext.list("projects");
print(projects);
projectIds = split(projects,",");
projectName = Ext.getName("project", projectIds[0]);
print(projectName);
```

* Datasets:

```
datasets = Ext.list("datasets");
print(datasets);
datasetIds = split(datasets,",");
datasetName = Ext.getName("dataset", datasetIds[0]);
print(datasetName);
```

* Images:

```
images = Ext.list("images");
print(images);
imageIds = split(images,",");
imageName = Ext.getName("image", imageIds[0]);
print(imageName);
```

* Tags:

```
tags = Ext.list("tags");
print(tags);
projectIds = split(tags,",");
tagName = Ext.getName("tag", tagIds[0]);
print(tagName);
```

### Listing objects with a given name

It is also possible to list objects with a specific name:

* Projects:

```
projects = Ext.list("projects", "name");
```

* Datasets:

```
datasets = Ext.list("datasets", "name");
```

* Images:

```
images = Ext.list("images", "name");
```

* Tags:

```
tags = Ext.list("tags", "name");
```

### Listing objects inside a given repository object

Each object ID can then be used to retrieve the contained objects (IDs and names):

It is, for example, possible to list datasets inside a project:

```
datasets = Ext.list("datasets", "project", projectIds[0]);
print(datasets);
datasetIds = split(datasets,",");
datasetName = Ext.getName("dataset", datasetIds[0]);
print(datasetName);
```

It is also possible to list tags attached to an image:

```
tags = Ext.list("tags", "image", imageIds[0]);
print(tags);
tagIds = split(tags,",");
tagName = Ext.getName("tag", tagIds[0]);
print(tagName);
```

Similarly, a dataset ID can be used to retrieve its images:

```
images = Ext.list("images", "dataset", datasetIds[0]);
print(images);
imageIds = split(images,",");
imageName = Ext.getName("image", imageIds[0]);
print(imageName);
```

### Creating projects, datasets and tags

Projects can be created with *Ext.createProject*:

```
projectId = Ext.createProject(name, description);
```

Datasets can be created with *Ext.createDataset*:

```
datasetId = Ext.createDataset(projectId, name, description);
```

Tags can be created with *Ext.createTag*:

```
tagId = Ext.createTag(name, description);
```

### Linking objects

Objects can be linked with *Ext.link*, e.g.:

```
Ext.link("dataset", datasetId, "tag", tagId);
```

### Deleting objects

Objects can be deleted with *Ext.delete*:

```
Ext.delete("project", projectId);
```

### Opening images

Pixel intensities can be retrieved from images:

```
imageplusID = Ext.getImage(imageIds[0]);
```

ROIs from OMERO can also be added to the ROI manager (and the current image):

```
nIJROIs = Ext.getROIs(imageIds[0]);
```

Conversely, ImageJ ROIs can also be saved to OMERO (the property is used to group ImageJ shapes into a single 3D/4D ROI
on OMERO):

```
nROIS = Ext.saveROIs(imageId, property);
```

### Saving images

The current image can be saved (as a TIF) to a dataset in OMERO:
```
newImageId = Ext.importImage(datasetId);
```

### Attaching / deleting files

Files can be attached to a project/dataset/image through *Ext.addFile*:
```
fileId = Ext.addFile('image', imageId, path);
```

They can also be deleted with *Ext.deleteFile*:
```
Ext.deleteFile(fileId);
```

## License

[GPLv2+](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/gpl-2.0/)
